# THE CASE AGAINST GRADES

Since time in memorial, _academic_ grades whether at the lowest or highest level of studying have played a great role in in setting the motivation to achieve academic success. It is the reason why we have dream schools that one would love to join to advance his education.
After graduating from college with a degree in Economics and it was time for me to immerse myself into the job market, I had great hopes of having a walk over in interviews that I anticipated to attend because I had performed very in my undergraduate studies, I had a couple of A’s in several core Economics courses. I however came face to face with the real shock because in the real job market, employers are looking for people with technical and hands on skills and not grades
According to Jeff Haden, Editor of Inc. Magazine opines in an article that appeared on the said magazine that Elon Musk, founder of Tesla and Space X doesn’t care if you even graduated from high school. For him, he has a soft spot for blending practicability and hard work and not your grades or a glittering resume painted A grades.
While I did manage to secure a job after I was able to prove myself after being given a practical task to accomplish, I am in agreement with Kohn that grades do not prepare students for the actual real, practical world (Kohn,2011)
Based on my own experience and the experience of others I am of the opinion that:
- **Grades derail a student’s ability to be practical and to learn the real hands on skills to tackle real world problems.** A student will only be interested in grasping theories and getting all the information that he will need to put on his exam when he/she sits for it.He/she has no desire to learn the hand on experience that he will need to tackle the real world problems at the work place.\
- **Grades are not a yardstick for evaluating how much a student has learnt and how academically they are gifted.** A student can score As in school and appear very smart but can the same student replicate the same at the work place? Can that student, once absorbed into the job market be rated a good performer in his/her roles? I highly doubt. To solve this tragedy of having A students that will be become a disaster at the job place, we need to create an education system that collaborates both classwork learning as well as practical job placements learning. While that is already in place in most countries, you will realize that the amount of time allocated for it like in internship could be only one semester compared to say seven semesters of class learning.
- **Grades are only way of gaining prestige by being used as a short cut to employment.** It is true that someone that has performed exceptionally well in class by scoring good grades has higher odds of securing employment. That is why students will work so hard to paint their transcripts with good grades. By scoring a C for example, it makes them feel unaccomplished. And in the race to secure such very good grades, they will fail to learn along the way the practical skills needed at the work place. At a personal level, while I really endeavored to score good grades, I always pushed myself to learn the practical skills associated with my future career like learning basic software that I would need later in my career
In conclusion, while grades motivate people to work hard through class competition, I am a fan encouraging learners to learn the technical and hands on skills that will really play the key role in their careers. I therefore think that having a system where learners would learn without having to worry about their grades would be more beneficial in imparting skills to solve real work problems.
**Reference**
Jeff H (Editor Inc.com): Want to work for Tesla? Elon Musk tweeted that he doesn’t care if you graduated high school-and it might be one of the smartest things he’s ever said.
Kohli A (2011) The case against grades. _Educational leadership_
